### Class 1 (2020/01/29)

We started unit 3 in this class. In unit 3, we will be using python as our primary programming language. First we started off with thinking about what features we would want if we were to create a programming language. Then we took a look at how python does all of that, and there was a bit of explanation about the syntaxes. It was very different from arduino/standard c. It was more close to bash, syntax wise, since no brackets are necessary. Python offers us very simple syntax. For example, when declaring variables, developers don't have to type the data type. It just automatically reads what data type it is. After learning these syntaxes, we started coding some basic programs. First we created the Hello World program, and then we started using control structures such as for loops and if statements. We were left with the task of Bubble sort, which is an algorithm that compares two numbers inside the list and swithcing the orders from small to big. I am still continuing on doing this task.


### Class 2 (2020/02/05)

Today we started off by checking the weekend task. Then we learned about CTS, or computational thinking skills. This skill has four steps, according to the video we watched today: 1. Decomposition 2. Pattern recognition 3. Abstraction 4. Algorithmic thining. In the first step, we  break the question into smaller questions, smaller steps. And then we deduce a pattern in the problem. For example, one can guess how the question can be solved, because of similar questions being asked in the past. This is pattern recognition. Then third, abstraction is about only focusing on the things that actually matter. Finally you deduce the steps to achieve the goal you want. This whole process is called the computational thining skill. After learning this, by using the skill, we developed a program in python with the prompt "From the 10 integers input by the user, find the largest prime factor". By using the computational thinking skill, we broke down the question, and looked at the problem step by step. Then after we have done that, we started a new task of creating inventory. I would need to create an inventory list for Lauricenia's book, and will be working on that nest class.


### Class 3 (2020/02/11)

In this class we did a socratic circle to further understand what our clients wants, as well as clarifying the developer with our needs. We were also introduced to a new way of recording the process of the development of the program, which was by using a table to record everything we did. We categorized the table into 4 sections, planning, design, development, evaluation, and we practiced how IA requires us to document our process of development.

### Class 4 (2020/02/12)

In this class we did a lot of coding practice. For the first warm up, we created a program that calculates the speed of Bolt and Cheetah, from the 4 user inputs. This was not bad, because it was the only calculation part that I had to think about, but the rest of the code was easy for me to understand. Then after the first warmup we were given a paper with random amount of wages written, and the purpose was to "Create a system where the average can be calculated without anyone knowing the perosnal wages of others." The idea was that the teacher would generate a random number and we add our wages one by one, and then finally subtracting the result from the random number, and then dividing it by the number of students. This worked successfully, and then we shifted the topic to talk about secure login system. The code included a lot of new commands and syntaxes, although the concept was understandable. Although I have one question and I would like to know more about the import os and what it does. I also would like to practice more of creating a secure login system or something close to that, so that I can become familiar with the new functions. 

### Class 5 (2020/02/14)

This class was dedicated to string practice. We learned how to manipulate the strings using different commands. We used the google docs uploaded on google classroom to practice them, as well as the online textbook of python. In this lesson, we learned how to split the text into words, searching for words in the test to see if the word is included or not, using f string, counting the letters, makeing the text into lowercase, join method, and finally calculating the total sum of the ascii codes of the letters. It required us to remember a lot of new functions and commands. I have one question about the lambda function. I still don't quite understand how lambda function works in python. I think I need to look into that deeper outside of class time. Also I feel like I also need to get used to pythonic way of coding, since python, can make the code more line efficient, and more easy to read, once you understand them. 

### Class 6 (2020/02/17)

Today we mainly worked on our repo for the entire class. First we did a warm up of writing codes on the white board, of a specific program. Then we did a kahoot for the names of computer parts. I remember making a mistake with the question with the answer "Motherboard". Now that I know that motherboard is the main circuit board, and the biggest structure in the computer, I will not forget it. Then the rest of class was dedicated to filling up criteria A of our inventory project. We did a second interview to our clients, and we had to record them so that we can show evidences to the evaluator. Then, after we got all the information during the interview, we started answering questions for criteria A. For today's class we were mainly working on the repo so I did not have any particular questions.

### Class 7 (2020/02/19)

In this class we first went over the homework that was assigned. It was about the graphing, and for this we used matplotlib, to show the graph. I understood the homework well, so there are no questions for this task. Then we did another kahoot today, testing some more knowledge about jargons in computer science. The questions were difficult than last time, and although I made a lot of mistakes, I did understand evrey question. The next step is to get the questions right. We also did a short presentation (I didn't yet), showing what kind of professions use what kind of softwares, and inputs, ouputs. Then we finally started a another small task of creating a bank account system for a customer. We are still in progress, but until now, it is not that bad, and I think I am managing to keep up with the lessons.

### Class 8 (2020/02/24)

Today we learned a new type of programming called object oriented programming. The one we were doing before was called the procedural pragramming, coding procedures one by one, and giving instructions to the computer. Although in an object oriented program it "provides a meand of structing progams so that objects, their properties and their behaviors are bundled together in a single data stucture". I did not quite understand what this is supposed to mean, but as I practice OOP I think I would grasually understand. Today I learned classes, and instances. We also did another graph practice, which was quite hard, and I thought that it was too quick for me to keep up. I didn't understand the last part of figuring out the zeros. Other than that I think I understood the main graph as well as the difference graph. Today was a hard lesson, since OOP was new to me, and I felt the need to practice more OOP on my own during free time.

### Class 9 (2020/02/26)

In this lesson we started to learn about the user interface. We started using an app called QT designer, and we practiced how to use the app. Before this class, we were required to create a sketch for the inventory system we are developing, and based on that we will be using the QT designer to create a software prototype. First we started with a practice and introduction course on how to use the softeware. We created a program that would convert cryptocurrencies to japanese yen. The system outline is something like this: There are two text boxes, one for the cryptocurreny ammount (input), and one for the converted japanese yen (output). We also put a button so that whenever the button is pressed, the input will be converted. We used the QT designer to design how the window would look like, and then after that, we converted the model into python, using a certain command on terminal. Then by using the OOP programming style, we developed the system furthermore, determining what the button will do, for instance. The QT designer is very hard to use at this point, since I've used ither interfaces before, so I need to get used to this new software. 

### Class 10 (2020/03/02)

From this class we started to go in depth with the QT designer. We added more codes, to create the full application. One thing I missed was the button in the application. Because I didn't have the button in the window, I couldn't have the application as exact as the one demonstrated, although I feel like I got the concept, and I understood what was happening in the code. During the class I had one error I couldn't figure out, and I asked for hekp from the teacher, although it took us a while to see what the error was. It was the syntax error, more specifically, the wrong letter case. These are very hard to capture, because it is a very small mistake, although this one small mistake can crash the code. After learning how to create the user interface, I now need to create the actual one for my inventory list.

### Class 11 (2020/03/09) & Class 12 (2020/03/11)

In this class we continued to develop our software design. We learned how to link two different pages together. We also learned how to show the registration page before the main page. In this lesson we kept asking questions about our app development. In this lesson, I had some time to clarify the things I were confused or didn't know how to, so my app development became a little more smoother. I need to update my design and development part of my repository.

### Week 28 (2020/04/01 - 04/08)

This week was a little bit irregular from the other weeks we had, since we had to leave school and move on to doing the online courses. For the first week, we had mainly three tasks: first updating journal, repo as well as developing the inventory, second asnwering the programming challenge, and finally answering the 5 questoins regarding the syllabus. For the development of the inventory, it is still ongoing, and I feel like I need to work more efficiently and finish up my login system at least to move on to work on the main page. Login system is giving me a hard time, but I know that if I have a little more time then I would be able to finish the login system. I still need to work on documenting my work, since there are many things I need to update especially my record of tasks. I need to keep track on that. For the programming questions, I had difficulty with question 2, because I didn't remember how dictionaries work in python, and although I did some research I was not able to find out the correct approach to the question, so I asked my teacher and he helped me out with the question. The rest was fine, and I think I managed to code it, even though it might not be the most efficient way. Finally for the syllabus questions, I think it was pretty straightforward, although I am not really confident with my answers. I felt the need to work on syllabus, especially the machine execution cycle part, since I don't rermeber the role of the computer parts. I need to review on that, and I also son't know if my answer to question 4(syllabus) is entirely correct. 

### Week 29 (2020/04/09 - 04/15)

For this week there were three tasks again. Programming practice, syllabus question and the inventory development. For the programming practice it was okay, and I think I managed to do them correctly. Maybe except for the second program question about the generating three random password with the length of 20. I was kind of confused if I should use what the slide about the secure login said. Although since the user input is just the number of how many passwords they want, I guessed that hash is not needed in this program, so I just created the program using random and string. For the syllabus question, this was more of an overall question about the computer structure, and I think it was a good question to check on how much we understand the computer's mechanism. Finally I am still working on the development of the inventory system. I am now working on the secure login system of the app, and I have finished the visuals of the program. For example I set the text boxes to changes their colors to red when the information the user typed in is wrong. Now that I've done the visuals, I need to move on to the actual system of login. I am also working on updating my repository, and the criterias.

